---
layout: post
title:  "2020 China High School Math League Problems"
date:   2022-09-12 12:05:00 -0700
categories:
usemathjax: true
---

### Translated Problems from China High School Math League, First Round
*With major assistance from Google Translate.*

The first eight problems are each worth 8 points. The last three in each set require justification.

## 2020 Problems (Version A)

1. In the geometric sequence $$\{a_n\}$$, $$a_9=13$$ and $$a_{13} = 1$$. Find the value of $$\log_{a_1} 13$$.

2. In the ellipse $$\Gamma$$, $$A$$ is an endpoint of the major axis and $$B$$ is an endpoint of the minor axis. Let $$F_1$$ and $$F_2$$ are the two foci of the ellipse. Given that 

    $$\overrightarrow{AF_1}\cdot \overrightarrow{AF_2} + \overrightarrow{BF_1} \cdot \overrightarrow{BF_2} = 0,$$

    find the value of $$\frac{AB}{F_1F_2}$$.

3. Let $$a>0$$, and suppose $$f(x) = x+\frac{100}{x}$$ has a minimum of $$m_1$$ on $$(0,a]$$ and a minimum $$m_2$$ on $$[a,+\infty)$$. If $$m_1m_2=2020$$, find the value of $$a$$.

4. Let $$z$$ be a complex number. If $$\frac{z-2}{z-i}$$ is a real number ($$i$$ is the imaginary unit), then find the minimum possible value of $$\vert z+3\vert $$.

5. In $$\triangle ABC$$, $$AB=6$$, $$BC=4$$, and the length of the median onto side $$AC$$ is $$\sqrt{10}$$. Find the value of 

    $$\sin^6\frac A2 + \cos^6\frac A2.$$

6. In regular tetrahedron $$PABC$$ with edge length $$1$$, let $$L$$, $$M$$, and $$N$$ be the midpoints of $$PA$$, $$PB$$, and $$PC$$. Find the area of the circle formed by the intersection of the circumsphere of $$PABC$$ with the plane $$LMN$$.

7. Suppose $$a,b>0$$ satisfy that $$\sqrt{\vert x\vert }+\sqrt{\vert x+a\vert }=b$$ has exactly $$3$$ solutions $$x_1<x_2<x_3=b$$. Find $$a+b$$.

8. There are $$10$$ cards, each containing a distinct pair of two different numbers from $$1,2,3,4,5$$. There are $$5$$ boxes, labeled $$1,2,3,4,5$$. Each card must be placed into a box such that the card with $$i,j$$ goes into either box $$i$$ or box $$j$$. A way of putting cards into boxes is called *good* if there are more cards in box $$1$$ than any other box. Find the number of good placements.

9. *(16 points)* In $$\triangle ABC$$, $$\sin A = \frac{\sqrt2}{2}$$. Find the range of possible values of $$\cos B + \sqrt 2 \cos C$$.

10. *(20 points)* For positive integers $$n$$ and real numbers $$x$$ ($$0\leq x <n$$), define 

    $$f(n,x)=(1-\{x\})\cdot \binom{\lfloor t\rfloor}{n}+\{x\}\cdot \binom{\lfloor t\rfloor+1}{n},$$

    where $$[x]$$ denotes the largest integer not exceeding $$x$$ and $$\{x\}=x-[x]$$. If the positive integers $$m,n\geq 2$$ satisfy 
 
    $$f\left(m,\frac 1n\right)+ f\left(m,\frac 2n\right)+\cdots + f\left(m,\frac{mn-1}{n}\right)=123,$$

    find the value of 

    $$f\left(n,\frac 1m\right)+f\left(n,\frac 2m\right) + \cdots + f\left(n,\frac {mn-1}m\right).$$

11. *(20 points)* On the Cartesian plane, points $$A, B, C$$ lie on on the hyperbola $$xy=1$$ such that $$\triangle ABC$$ is an isosceles right triangle. Find the smallest possible value of the area of $$\triangle ABC$$. 

## 2020 Problems (Version B)

1. If the real number $$x$$ satisfies $$\log_2 x = \log_4(2x) + \log_8(4x)$$, find $$x$$.

2. In the $$xy$$ plane, circle $$\Omega$$ passes through the points $$(0,0)$$, $$(2,4)$$, and $$(3,3)$$. Find the largest possible distance from a point on the circle to the origin.

3. Let $$X$$ be the set $$\{1,2,\cdots,20\}$$. $$A$$ is a subset of $$X$$ with at least two elements such that the elements of $$A$$ can be ordered into consecutive integers. Find the number of such subsets $$A$$.

4. In triangle $$ABC$$, $$BC=4$$, $$CA=5$$, and $$AB=6$$. Find $$\sin^6\frac A2 + \cos^6\frac A2$$.

5. Define the $$9$$-element set A=\{a+bi\mid a,b\in \{1,2,3\}\}, where $$i$$ is the imaginary unit. Find the number of permutations $$\alpha = (z_1, z_2,\cdots, z_9)$$ such that $$\vert z_1\vert \leq \vert z_2\vert \leq \cdots \leq \vert z_9\vert $$.

6. Given that each side length of a right trangular prism is $$3$$, find the volume of the circumscribing sphere of the prism.

7. In the convex quadrilateral $$ABCD$$, $$\overrightarrow{BC} = 2\overrightarrow{AD}$$. Point $$P$$ is a point in the plane of $$ABCD$$ satisfying 

    $$\overrightarrow{PA} + 2020 \overrightarrow{PB} + \overrightarrow{PC} + 2020 \overrightarrow{PD} = \vec 0.$$

    If $$s$$ and $$t$$ are the areas of $$ABCD$$ and $$\triangle PAB$$, respectively, find $$\frac ts$$. 

8. It is known that the fifth-degree polynomial $$f(x)$$ has leading coefficient $$1$$ and satisfies $$f(n)=8n$$ for $$n=1,2,\cdots,5$$. Find the coefficient of $$x$$ in $$f(x)$$.

9. In ellipse $$T$$, $$A$$ is an endpoint of the major axis, $$B$$ is an endpoint of the minor axis, and $$F_1,F_2$$ are the two foci. Given that 

    $$\overrightarrow{AF_1}\cdot \overrightarrow{AF_2} + \overrightarrow{BF_1}\cdot \overrightarrow{BF_2} = 0,$$

    find the value of $$\tan\angle ABF_1\cdot \tan\angle ABF_2$$.

10. Suppose that the real numbers $$a,b,c$$ satisfy $$a^2+4b^2+9c^2=4b+12c-2$$. Find the smallest possible value of $$\frac 1a+ \frac 2b + \frac 3c$$.

11. Define the sequence $$\{a_n\}$$ to be 

    $$a_n = \frac{1}{\sqrt5}\left(\left(\frac{1+\sqrt5}{2}\right)^n-\left(\frac{1-\sqrt5}{2}\right)^n\right)$$

    for $$n=1,2,\cdots$$. Prove that there are infinitely many positive integers $$m$$ such that $$a_{m+4}a_m-1$$ is a perfect square.